SIZE                                                                       SIZE



     The SIZE command is summarized as follows:

          SIZE is a data reclassification command that selects polygons or
          lines in an active map based on area of polygons or length of lines.
          For example, SIZE might be used to select pinyon-juniper forest
          stands between 50 and 100 acres in size from a vegetative cover map.
          The SIZE command uses an active map as input and produces an active
          map as output.


     The SIZE command is specified as follows:
     (* denotes parameters which can only be entered in a prompted mode)

          SIZE (active ID) (minimum)* (maximum)*


     The individual parameters of the SIZE command are described below:

          (active ID) is the ID number of a map referenced in the active table.

          (minimum) is the minimum size of the polygon to be activated, in
          acres, or, the minimum length of the line to be activated, in miles.
          If the polygon or line is equal to the minimum, it will be
          activated.  However, since area and length are calculated as real
          numbers, there may be some difficulty making the match.  It may
          be necessary to adjust the value slightly to be sure to get the
          desired polygons or lines.

          (maximum) is the maximum size of the polygon to be activated, in
          acres, or, the maximum length of the line to be activated, in miles.
          Any polygons equal in size to the maximum will be activated. See
          the caution under minimum.


     The following is an example of use of the SIZE command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? SIZE
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP I.D.
          ? 1
           ENTER MINIMUM POLYGON SIZE (IN ACRES)
          ? 50
           ENTER MAXIMUM POLYGON SIZE (IN ACRES)
          ? 100

             137 ITEMS BELOW RANGE AND    38 ITEMS ABOVE RANGE
              37 HITS FOR ACTIVE ID  2


     The limitations of the SIZE command are as follows:

          -- Map must be active and window must be set.

          -- Since the features activated must be greater than or equal to the
             minimum value specified and less than or equal to the maximum
             specified, it may sometimes appear that some features which should
             have been included were not. When dealing with real numbers, it is
             difficult to make an exact match. The numbers displayed by the AREA
             and LENGTH commands have been rounded. Therefore, the actual size 
             of the feature may differ slightly. With this in mind, slight 
             changes in the minimum/maximum values may help achieve the desired 
             results.

          -- May not activate a polygon or line which is equal in size
             to the minimum or maximum.

          -- Cannot use cell data.
