AREA                                                                       AREA



     The AREA command is summarized as follows:

          AREA is a data description command that produces a table of area,
          frequency, and percentage of each subject associated with any
          polygon or discrete cell map referenced in the active map table.
          If the file was selected by attribute, then the table is given in
          terms of that attribute. More than one vector map may be described
          at the same time.  However, only one cell may be entered at a time.
          Area is calculated in acres.


     The AREA command is specified as follows:

          AREA (active ID's) (HARDCOPY) (non-sort option)


     The individual parameters of the AREA command are described below:

          (active ID's) are the ID numbers of polygon or discrete cell maps
          referenced in the active map table which are to be described.  If
          more than one map ID is entered, all the maps specfied must be
          vector maps.  The table will describe all the maps indicated and
          the totals will be summed.

          (HARDCOPY) is an option to obtain a hardcopy listing of the AREA
          table on a line printer.  If HARDCOPY is specified output is written
          to a disk file called LINE.PRINTER.  This file can be printed by
          exiting MOSS and issuing the operating system print command.  If
          anything other than the characters HARDCOPY are specified in this
          option, the characters are used to specify a file name and the output
          is written to the file.  If the file exists, the output is appended to
          the existing file.  The name the operating system uses for the line
          printer can also be specified.  This parameter can only be entered in
          un-prompted mode (see example below).

          (non-sort option) is an option that allows the user to display an
          area table for one or more active maps with subjects listed in the
          order digitized.  If the area for more than one map is requested the
          subjects are grouped in the order that the ID's are typed.  This
          option is activated by typing an "N" after HARDCOPY, a filename,
          or @CONSOLE (to obtain listing at console).  A default would sort
          the subjects alphanumerically.

     The following are examples of use of the AREA command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? AREA
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP I.D.(S)
          ? 1

          To obtain a hardcopy listing:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? AREA 1 HARDCOPY

          To obtain a non-sorted hardcopy:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? AREA 1 2 3 HARDCOPY N


     The limitations of the AREA command are as follows:

          -- Input map must be an active polygon or discrete cell map.

          -- Cannot have more than 2500 total unique subjects in the area
             table.

          -- If area is greater than 9999999.99 or frequency is greater than
             99999, asterisks will be printed out.

          -- No more than 40 maps may be described at one time.

          -- If the LINE.PRINTER file created by the HARDCOPY option is to
             be saved it should be renamed since use of the HARDCOPY option
             deletes existing LINE.PRINTER files.

          -- Only one cell map can be specified at a time.

          -- For the N option to work, the HARDCOPY option must be used.
