DELETE                                                                   DELETE



     The DELETE command is summarized as follows:

          DELETE is a data manipulation command that allows the user to delete
          maps from the work or master database. The name of the map is removed
          from the map file list and all associated files are removed from the
          directory.  The user is permitted to delete maps out of the master
          database only by knowing the correct password and having write access
          to the database.  This command should be used with extreme caution
          since deletion permanently removes maps.


     The DELETE command is specified as follows:
     (* denotes parameters which can only be entered in a prompted mode)

          DELETE (map name) (password)*


     The individual parameters of the DELETE command are described below:

          (map name) is the name of the map that is to be deleted.

          (password) is the password which must be used if the map to be
          deleted is a master database map.


     The following is an example of use of the DELETE command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? DELETE
           ENTER NAME OF MAP TO DELETE
          ? MDWOLFRG
           DATA TYPE =     3 NUMBER OF ITEMS =     8
           DO YOU WISH TO DELETE THIS FILE (Y OR N)
          ? Y


     The limitations of the DELETE command are as follows:

          -- Sometimes an error message will be received stating that a file
             could not be deleted. This may mean that one of the files which
             normally would be associated with this map name could not be
             deleted for a variety of reasons. For example, it did not exist or
             it was protected from deletion.

          -- Master maps can not be deleted from disk since pathname is not
             resolved.

          -- A file will be deleted from the directory even if it is not in
             the .DT file.

          -- If only the map name is to be deleted from the map name list, the
             utility, DATABTEST, should be used.
