WINDOW                                                                   WINDOW



     The WINDOW command is summarized as follows:

          WINDOW is a data display command that initiates a rectangular viewing
          window.  Only those map features that fall within the specified
          window will be analyzed and displayed.  The map database coordinate
          information is referenced to the coordinates of the map projection.
          Therefore, the window is also in map projection coordinates.  The
          command can be used at any time to change the viewing window and must
          be executed before any activated maps can be plotted or displayed.
          There are two forms of the WINDOW command.  In the first case, the
          the window is set using an active map(s) as reference.  In the second
          case, the user specifies the exact coordinates of the southwest corner
          and X and Y extent from that corner.  Exact coordinates may be
          determined by use of the LOCATE command.


     The WINDOW command is specified as follows:

          WINDOW (active ID's)

          or

          WINDOW METERS (SWX coordinate)* (SWY coordinate)* (X distance)*
          (Y distance)*


     The individual parameters of the WINDOW command are described below:

          (active ID's) is the ID number(s) of a map(s) referenced in the
          active map table which is to be used as the reference(s) for the
          viewing window.  If more than one ID is entered the viewing window
          will be the largest north and west and the smallest south and
          east of all active maps.

          METERS is an option that sets the window using a user specified
          location of the SW corner of the window and distances east (X) and
          north (Y) of the SW corner. Input is prompted.

          (SWX coordinate) is the easting coordinate at the SW corner of the
          intended viewing rectangle.

          (SWY coordinate) is the northing coordinate at the SW corner of the
          intended viewing rectangle.

          (X distance) is the distance in meters from the SW corner to the
          SE corner of the intended viewing rectangle.

          (Y distance) is the distance in meters from the SW corner to the NW
          corner of the intended viewing rectangle.


     The following is an example of use of the WINDOW command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? WINDOW
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP I.D.S TO WINDOW
          ? 1


     The limitations of the WINDOW command are as follows:

          -- Cannot set a zero or negative window.

          -- When working with point data (type 1 maps), best results
             are obtained by windowing on an area larger than the MBR of
             the point map.
