DEVICE                                                                   DEVICE



     The DEVICE command is summarized as follows:

          DEVICE is a program control command which changes where graphics
          output is sent.  This can be a disk file or another console.  The de-
          fault device for graphics output is the log-on CRT.  In many cases,
          this presents no problem.  However, there are three cases in which
          graphics output should not go to the log-on CRT.  The first is when
          the user wishes to save a softcopy plot (e.g., a shaded map) for 
          later replay at much higher speeds.  The second case is when the user
          wishes to run MOSS in two terminal mode.  Two terminal mode allows 
          the user to have all text printed at the log-on terminal and all 
          graphics routed to another terminal.  Consequently, text output will
          not clutter graphics output.  The third case is when MOSS is to be
          run in batch mode.  The user must use the DEVICE command and specify
          output to a disk file.

          The DEVICE command allows the user to specify an alternate graphics
          output device.  If a disk file is specified, all graphics will be
          written to this disk file.  The disk file can be played back at a
          later date by using the CLI TYPE function (i.e., type the file at a
          graphics terminal).  In order to operate in two terminal mode, the 
          user must enter a console name, such as @CON24.  Whatever console
          graphics are being routed to must be disabled!!!


     The DEVICE command is specified as follows:
  
          DEVICE (new device name)


     The individual parameters of the DEVICE command are described below:

          (new device name) is the name of the disk file or console to which
          the graphics are being routed.  The user may also enter <CR> to re-
          sume graphic output to the log-on CRT.


     The following is an example of use of the DEVICE command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? DEVICE
           OLD DEVICE FILE WAS @CONSOLE

           ENTER NAME OF NEW DEVICE FILE FOR GRAPHICS OUTPUT
            ----------
          ? NEWFILE


     The limitations of the DEVICE command are as follows:

          -- If graphics output is to a graphics console, the console must be
             disabled.

          -- If output is to a disk file, do not try to use any of the
             commands that require cursor input, such as ZOOM, TEXT, GENERATE,
             LOCATE, or DISTANCE.

          -- Use of the same device name as previously specified will delete
             the previous file contents.

          -- Serious problems will result if the device is specified as a name
             of an existing map, a master or workfile, or any reserved MOSS
             names such as MOSS temporary files.
