LENGTH                                                                   LENGTH



     The LENGTH command is summarized as follows:

          LENGTH is a data description command that produces a table showing
          length, frequency, and percent of each subject associated with any
          line map referenced in the active map table.  More than one map may
          be described at the same time.  Length is summarized in miles.


     The LENGTH command is specified as follows:

          LENGTH (active ID's) (HARDCOPY) (non-sort option)


     The individual parameters of the LENGTH command are described below:

          (active ID's) are the ID numbers of line maps referenced in the
          active map table which are to be described.  If more than one map
          ID is entered the command will produce a table describing all of
          the maps specified.

          (HARDCOPY) is an option to obtain a hardcopy listing of the LENGTH
          table on a line printer.  If HARDCOPY is specified output is written
          to a disk file called LINE.PRINTER.  This file can be printed by
          exiting MOSS and issuing the operating system print command.  If
          anything other than the characters HARDCOPY are specified in this
          option, the characters are used to specify a file name and the output
          is written to the file.  If the file exists, the output is appended to
          the existing file.  The name the operating system uses for the line
          printer can also be specified.  This parameter can only be entered in
          un-prompted mode (see example below).

          (non-sort option) is an option that allows the user to display a
          length table for one or more active maps with subjects listed in the
          order digitized.  If the length for more than one map is requested the
          subjects are grouped in the order that the ID's are typed.  This
          option is activated by typing an "N" after HARDCOPY, a filename,
          or @CONSOLE (to get the listing on the screen).  A default would
          sort the subjects alphanumerically.


     The following is an example of use of the LENGTH command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? LENGTH
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP I.D.(S)
          ? 5

          To obtain a hardcopy listing:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? LENGTH 5 HARDCOPY

          To obtain a non-sorted hardcopy:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? LENGTH 2 3 HARDCOPY N


     The limitations of the LENGTH command are as follows:

          -- The LENGTH command may provide erroneous results when it is used
             after a ZOOM command has been issued.  ZOOM does not "clip"
             polygons that fall on the border of the display window.

          -- Input map must be an active line map.

          -- If length is greater then 9999999.99 miles, only asterisks will
             print out.

          -- Cannot have more than 2500 total unique subjects in the length
             table.

          -- No more than 40 maps may be described at one time.

          -- If the LINE.PRINTER file created by the HARDCOPY option is to
             be saved it should be renamed since use of the HARDCOPY option
             deletes existing LINE.PRINTER files.
