PLOT                                                                       PLOT



     The PLOT command is summarized as follows:

          PLOT is a data display command that allows the user to display any
          active map.  If the vector map has been cartographically assigned
          (see the ASSIGN command), the information stored in the database is
          used for enhanced plotting.  For example, if line features repre-
          senting railroads have been properly font assigned as railoads,
          then this font will be displayed.

          Options in the command allow the user to specify that no border
          around the display window be plotted, that tics be plotted in a
          specified longitude/latitude increment, and that a previously
          constructed graphics display file be plotted.


     The PLOT command is specified as follows:
     (* denotes parameters which can only be entered in a prompted mode)

          PLOT (active ID's) (display range)* (noborder) (tics n)
          (graphics file) (cancel or abort) (map name)


     The individual parameters of the PLOT command are described below:

          (active ID's) are the ID numbers of one or more maps referenced
          in the active map table which are to be displayed.

          (display range) is an option for continuous cell data.  MOSS will
          prompt for an interval value which is similar to a contour interval.
          Beginning with the minimum cell value, interval borders will be
          calculated. The resulting plot represents these borders by
          plotting lines between cells which fall in different intervals.

          (noborder) if this option is entered, then the border around the
          display window does not plot.  This option can only be entered in
          an un-prompted mode. Four letters are required, NOBO.

          (tics n) is an option that results in tics being plotted every n
          increments in x and y.  The increment n is specified in minutes.
          The tic grid is plotted in the projection of the first active ID.
          This option can only be entered in an un-prompted mode. Four letters
          are required, TICS.

          (graphics file) is an option to plot a previously constructed graphics
          display file.  This option can only be entered in an un-prompted mode
          and must must follow active ID specifications.  This option will
          use the map's graphic representation instead of the actual map.
          To create a graphics display file first select the desired map(s)
          then set your output device to a file name plus a .DP extension.
          Then use the PLOT, SHADE, LEGEND, etc. commands to construct the
          graphics in this file.  When the ENTER COMMAND prompt comes back,
          use the DEVICE command to set your output file back to your
          original graphics output device (such as @CON23).  Please note that
          these graphics display files are the same as MAPS display files
          which are data type 18.  Also note that these files are only graphics
          representations and that no matter what your current display window
          is set to these files will ignore the current window and use the
          window that was set at the time the display file was created.

          (cancel or abort) is an option that allows the user to stop a plot of
          active maps without stopping MOSS.  Entering CAN or ABO while
          plotting causes the main prompt to again appear.

          (map name) is an option that sequencially searches the active table
          for the first active ID based on that map. If it finds one, that
          active ID is plotted. If not found, an illegal ID message is printed.

     The following are examples of the use of the PLOT command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? PLOT
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP I.D.(S) TO PLOT
          ? 1
           ENTER COMMAND
          ? PLOT 1 2 3 NOBORDER TICS 6 GRAPHICS MDRPLOT
           ENTER COMMAND
          ? PLOT 4            (active ID 4 is a continuous, type 8, cell map)
           MINIMUM    XXXX.XXXX MAXIMUM    XXXX.XXXX
          ENTER CONTOURING INTERVAL
          ? 100


     The limitations of the PLOT command are as follows:

          -- No more than 20 active maps can be plotted at one time.

          -- Display window must be set.

          -- If the (graphics file) option is used, a display file must exist
             with a .DP extension.  When the graphics display file is plotted,
             it is independent of the current display window.
