





       UTILITY 16 - XYSUBJECT                     UTILITY 16 - XYSUBJECT



       16.  XYSUBJECT   (REFORMAT POINT DATA TO MOSS IMPORT FORMAT)


       The XYSUBJECT  option of  the UTILITY  command is  summarized  as
       follows:

            XYSUBJECT is a reformatting utility option that will take an
            ASCII data file and convert it to a MOSS import file for use
            with the IMPORT command.

            XYSUBJECT will  only work  with point  data.    This  option
            requires that  each point be described by only one record in
            the data  file.   In other  words, if  the data  file has 10
            records (rows  or lines),  the resultant import file will be
            for 10 points.

            XYSUBJECT will work for points whose x-,y-coordinates are in
            either decimal  degrees, feet,  or meters.  It will not work
            for coordinates stored as degrees, minutes, or seconds.

            The user  will be  prompted for  the name  of the ASCII data
            file.   It cannot  be named  `XYZ.IMP', as  that will be the
            name of  the output  file.   Next, the user will be asked if
            the ASCII  data file is in decimal degrees, feet, or meters.
            Select `1  or 2'.   If  decimal degrees  are being used, the
            user will  be  asked  if  the  longitudes  in  the  USA  are
            negative.   If they are not negative, XYSUBJECT will add the
            required negative  sign.   Next, the  user will  be asked to
            enter a FORTRAN format statement to describe where the x-,y-
            coordinates and subject are located in each record.

            Use  the   following  guidelines  for  creating  the  format
            statement:

                 Start it with   (
                 End it with     )

                 Use      T#,    for tabbing to the starting position of
                 each field.  Always end with a comma.

                 Use      F#.#, for the x-,y-coordinates.  The number to
                 the left  of the  decimal  point  indicates  the  total
                 number of spaces the coordinate occupies, including the
                 space for  the decimal.  The number to the right of the
                 decimal point  indicates the  number of  decimal places
                 used.   If there  is not  any decimal point, use F#.0,.
                 Always end  with a  comma.   The number to the right of
                 the decimal  point can  never be larger than the number
                 to the left of the decimal.

                 Use     A#    for the subject (even if it is a number).
                 Never end with a comma.  Maximum is 30 characters.

                 The first  F#.#, will be used to find the x-coordinate;
                 the second F#.#, will be used to find the y-coordinate.
                 The order is important.

                 Examples of format statements:

                      1.     (T20,F5.3,T45,F6.3,T66,A30)
                      2.     (T1,F10.5,T33,F10.5,T44,A6)
                      3.     (T66,F8.2,T22,F7.2,T6,A20)
                             (NOTE:  The order in the ASCII file is
                              subject, y,x.)


       There are no parameters associated with the XYSUBJECT option.


       No limitations of the XYSUBJECT option have been found to date.

