PROFILE                                                         PROFILE



     The PROFILE command is summarized as follows:

          PROFILE is a data display command which allows the user to
          generate a cross-sectional diagram of continous cell maps
          (type 8) or line maps (type 2), such as contour maps with
          numeric subjects.  The extent of the cross-section is
          specified by crosshair input of two locations.  It is
          suggested that the map be displayed, for reference, prior to
          use of the command. If the active ID is a cell map, the
          horizontal axis of the resultant cross-section (profile)
          shows the distance along a line between the two points
          digitized with the cross-hairs.  If it is a line map, the
          distance is calculated from the first line encountered on
          the active map by the cross-hair line to the last line
          encountered.  The profile will be oriented with the first
          location entered postioned at the left side.  The XYZ
          distance is the distance along the surface in decimal
          miles, to the tenths.

     The PROFILE command is specified as follows:
     (* denotes parameters which can only be entered in a prompted mode)

         PROFILE (active ID) (vertical exaggeration)* (crosshair input)*


     The individual parameters of the PROFILE command are described
     below:

          (active ID) is the ID number of a continuous cell map or line
          map referenced in the active map table.

          (vertical exaggeration) is a real number which specifies the
          vertical exaggeration of the values for the cross-section
          display.

          (crosshair input) is where the user specifies the extent of
          the cross-section to be diagrammed.


     The following is an example of use of the PROFILE command:

           ENTER COMMAND
          ? PROFILE
           ENTER ACTIVE MAP ID TO PROFILE
          ? 1
           ENTER VERTICAL EXAGGERATION ?
          ? 10
           POINT TO TWO LOCATIONS           [USE CURSOR]
           PAUSE, HIT ANY KEY TO CONTINUE   [COMMAND THEN DRAWS PROFILE]


     The limitations of the PROFILE command are as follows:

          -- Works only with continuous cell (type 8) or line (type 2)
             maps.

          -- Only one map can be profiled at at time.

          -- Map must be active and window must be set.

          -- The user may only enter 2 points to define the profile
             line.

          -- If using a cell map, no more than 512 cells can be
             included in the profile.

          -- The profile will automatically be expanded to fill the
             width of the screen.

          -- Profiles can not be sent to a plotter.

          -- There is no correlation between the vertical exaggeration
             in the PROFILE command and the 3-D command.
