





       VARIOGRAM                                               VARIOGRAM



       The VARIOGRAM command is summarized as follows:

            VARIOGRAM is  a data  description command  that  produces  a
            (semi)variogram for  any point  map referenced in the active
            map table.   A variogram is a tabular and graphic display of
            the amount  of correlation between the z-values of points as
            the distance  between them  increases.   Normally, the  user
            produces a variogram as an essential first step in kriging a
            set of points.


       The VARIOGRAM command is specified as follows:
       (* denotes parameters that can only be entered after a prompt)

            VARIOGRAM (active ID) (variogram title)* (logarithm option)*
            (moment center display option)* (automatic scaling option)*
            (relative variogram option)* (class interval to group
            distances)* (number of variogram directions)* (variogram
            angles)* (variogram windows)* (restart option)* (save
            option)*


       The parameters of the VARIOGRAM command are described below:

            (active ID)  is the  ID number  of the map referenced in the
            active map table.

            (variogram title)  is an optional 79-character title that is
            displayed at  the top  of the  variogram.  The user may omit
            the title by depressing <CR>.

            (logarithm option) is an option that produces a variogram of
            the logarithms  of the  z-values rather  than  the  z-values
            themselves.  The default response is `NO'.

            (moment center display option) produces a variogram computed
            by a  slightly different  formula.   The default response is
            `NO'.

            (automatic  scaling   option)   permits   the   machine   to
            automatically determine  the vertical scale of the variogram
            based on  the maximum variance found.  Normally, for a first
            variogram, `YES'  is the  answer.  If `NO', the user is then
            prompted for  the maximum  value to  appear on  the vertical
            axis.  This is used as the basis for vertical scaling.

            (relative variogram option) again produces a variogram based
            on slightly different calculations.  The default response is
            `NO'.

            (class interval to group distances) is the size of the class
            interval used  as a  basis for variogram calculations.  This
            option also determines the scaling of the horizontal axis of
            the variogram.   For  example, if a class interval of `1000'
            is entered,  the machine  will first  calculate the  average
            variance for  all points  with distances between 0 and 1000,
            then for  all points  between 1000 and 2000, and so on up to
            20,000.   There are  always exactly  20  intervals  and  the
            maximum value on the horizontal scale is always 20 times the
            class interval.

                 Class interval  units are  the same as the units on the
                 original map.   These  units are  `meters' unless other
                 units were  specifically selected  at the  time the map
                 was created.

                 To enter  the class  interval,  the  user  should  know
                 something about  the geographic extent of the data set.
                 A  value  between  1000  and  5000  meters  is  usually
                 appropriate for a 7 1/2 minute quad map.

                 The default response to this prompt is `1000'.

            (number of  variogram directions)  must be  answered with  a
            number between 1 and 5.  (If it is not, the prompt continues
            to  appear.)     This   process  determines  the  number  of
            variograms that will be calculated from the data.

            (variogram angles)  and (variogram  windows)  determine  for
            each variogram  (up to  five) the  alignment of points to be
            considered in  calculating the  variogram.  Variogram angles
            start with  0 at  due north  and  increase  in  a  clockwise
            direction.   Thus, north is 0, east is 90, and south is 180.
            Either negative or positive numbers may be used as variogram
            angles.

                 A variogram window of 0 will result in almost all pairs
                 of points  being rejected.   A variogram window of 180,
                 combined with  any angle, will result in a variogram of
                 all points in the data set.  Windows of more than 0 and
                 less than  180 will  produce directional  variograms of
                 greater or lesser precision.

            (restart option) asks the user if the new variogram is being
            produced from  the same  SELECTed map as the last variogram.
            A `YES' answer should be given only if:

                 -- A variogram  has previously  been calculated for the
                    same data set with the same active ID;

                 -- Since the  previous variogram,  no  variograms  have
                    been produced from other data sets;

                 -- The data set has not been modified; and

                 -- The viewing  window and  the active  table have  not
                    changed.

                 The default response for this option is `NO'.

            (save option)  produces a  permanent copy  of the  variogram
            after it  has been  calculated and  displayed on the screen.
            To receive  a permanent  copy of  the variogram, enter a 10-
            character or  less file name.  The system will automatically
            copy the variogram to this file.

                 Suppose that  a variogram has been saved under the file
                 name VARI.OUT.   To  see this  variogram on the screen,
                 enter the following commands:

                            ENTER COMMAND
                           ? SYSTEM

                 When the  PRIMOS prompt  appears, enter:

                             SLIST VARI.OUT

                 The variogram will then appear on the screen.

                 To delete, type:

                             DELETE VARI.OUT

                 To return to MOSS, type:

                             BYE


       The limitations of the VARIOGRAM command are as follows:

            -- Map must be active and window must be set.

            -- No more than five variograms can be used at a time.

            -- Only point maps (type 1) can be used.

            -- No more than 1500 points can be entered in a data set.

            -- z-values of  points should  not  be  greater  than  about
               10E+10 (one billion).
